[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: So this attack which
I just outlined is called the XSS attack,
which stands for cross site scripting.
Now it should be called CSS.
But there was another
abomination called CSS.
So they call it XSS but
the name is a problem.
The name says that there's something
wrong with cross-sitescripting but
in fact that is a highly desirable thing.
We want to be able to have sites cooperate
with each other and businesses and
services cooperate with each other which
might be located on different sites.
That's a desirable thing,
it's not a bad thing.
And there are forms of this attack which
do not require the use of a second site.
So the name is just completely wrong but
the security experts who first
identified this attack did not
understand what this attack was.
They gave an incorrect name but
the security industry is still operating
on that name, and they're expecting you as
practitioners to understand what they're
meaning when their language is incorrect.
Cross site scripting attacks were invented
in 1995 when JavaScript was first released
and they've been going on ever since.
We're just now on the 20th anniversary
of cross site scripting attacks.
So, we have made some baby steps.
For example, there's a content security
policy thing that's in browsers now.
It took a long time to get it out but
it's out there.
Unfortunately most sites aren't using it.
So it's still unsafe by default.
And in fact, in order to use it,
it means that a lot of common practices
now become illegal, as they should.
But because they're common practices,
it's not gonna get used.
A mashup is a self-inflicted XSS attack,
and it turns out advertising is a mashup,
and
the most reliable cost effective method
to inject evil code is to buy an ad.
>> Douglas Crockford: So why is there XSS?
So when things go wrong at
an architectural level,
it's never just one thing.
You need a lot of things
to go wrong simultaneously.
And that happened on the Web.
The first one is that the web
stack is too complicated.
There are too many languages,
each with its own encoding, quoting,
commenting and escapement conventions that
can all be nested inside of each other.
I've called this the turducken problem.
It's very difficult to look
at a piece of code and
determine that it's going to
be benign in all contexts.
That's a very hard analysis to do..
And it's made even worse
because browsers do heroic
things to try to make sense
out of malformed content.
In fact HTML5 began as an attempt
to standardize the terrible stupid
things that browsers do to try
to make sense of invalid HTML.
Then that's compounded with the popularity
of template-based web frameworks that
are optimized for XSS injection.
I hate templating,
we'll talk more about those later.
And then finally the JavaScript global
object gives every scrap of script
the same powerful capabilities.
And yet as bad as it is at security,
the browser is still a vast
improvement over everything else.
So the problem is not a cross
site scripting attack.
It is a confusion of interests.
The browser distinguishes between the
interests of the user and of the site, but
it did not anticipate that there
might be other interests involved.
And that's where it fails.
So within a page interests are confused.
So an ad, a widget, an AJAX library,
an analytics library, anything that
gets loaded from a third party,
all of that code gets exactly
the same rights as you do.
It means you are trusting everybody
in all of those other institutions.
Now JavaScript gets close
to getting it right and
I think JavaScript can be repaired and
become an object capability language,
we'll talk more about what that means.
HTML, I don't have any hope that
we're ever gonna fix HTML and
the DOM which is that hideous API
that HTML uses, is horribly insecure.
I don't see that going away either.
So this stuff is not gonna
get fixed in a hurry.
So it's up to web developers to create
secure applications on an insecure
platform and that is really, really hard.
It shouldn't have to be that hard but
it is that hard.